# System Synopsis

Oikos is a protocol for issuing and trading synthetic assets on [Tron](https://tron.network/). Each synthetic asset (or [Synth](tokens.md#synths)) is an [TRC20 token](https://tronprotocol.github.io/documentation-en/contracts/trc20/) which tracks the price of an external asset; for example each [sUSD](https://tronscan.io/#/address/410e137dcc4bdb5bdbeb4dc7ea7f572f2dc683152d) token tracks the price of the US dollar. A wide variety of Synths exists within Oikos, including fiat currencies, cryptocurrencies, commodities, and [inverse indexes](tokens.md#inverse-syths).
In principle the system can support any asset with a clear price, and provides on-chain exposure to an unlimited range of real-world assets.

Oikos is otherwise composed of [a smart contract infrastructure](contracts/index.md) and [a set of incentives](incentives.md) which maintains Synth prices. It is underpinned by the value of the [Oikos Network Token](tokens.md#oikos-network-token) (OKS). OKS acts as collateral; staking a proportional value of OKS is required to mint Synths. Stakers are rewarded for supporting the system with a pro-rata share of the fees generated by activity in the system. The value of OKS is thus directly connected with the usage of the network it collateralises.

This mechanism allows Oikos to support instantaneous, near-frictionless conversion between different flavours of Synths without the liquidity and slippage issues experienced by other decentralised exchanges. The resulting network of tokens supports an extensive set of use cases including trading, loans, payments, remittance, eCommerce and many more.

